29 August 2020
   Python 3!
   
27 November 2016
   Fixed: #280 Turn off auto-saving "Enter description here" description for cover art
   Added: CJK Encoding for Encoding Conversion Function (XIE Dongping)
   Fixed: Parsing tracks in Discogs if only a single artist (Frank Sachsenheim)
   Fixed: Setting user-agent for Tag Sources (Frank Sachsenheim)
   Fixed: Support for latest mutagen (Bruno Bergot)
   Changed: Improved Amazon tag source album matching.
   Added: Swedish translation (Åke Engelbrektson)
   Updated: Czech translation (Pavel Fric)
   Added: Spanish translation (José Vidal)

31 January 2016 - 1.1.0
   Fixes:
        Playlists not getting loaded in certain cases
        Discogs changed their API to allow OAuth. As a result you can now only lookup releases using their Discogs release id.
        Plugins are now included in default install
        Padding of total tracks number follows the same rules as padding a track number #269
        Improved matching of Amazon resources
        Filtering 'simple' values works again #253
        Bug in regex functions where extra \ can get added    
   Changes:
        Modified date is updated by default when saving
   New:
        Autonumbering has a bunch of new options. Explained in docs.
        

15 November 2014 - 1.0.5
   Fixed:
	A bug in actions where floating point values weren't getting handled correctly. Could cause puddletag to lock up.
	

9 November 2014 - 1.0.4
   Fixed:
	Regular expression parsing
	Discogs API no longer working. Fixed it so that searches can be done using Discogs release id only.
	Fixed comparison of boolean values in format strings.
	Scripting function escaping wasn't working.
   Changes:
        All config options are stored as JSON. Should fix issues with not being able to store certain values.
   Added:
	$to_num scripting function. Converts text to numbers for easy comparison.
	AIFF support.
	Configuration is stored using XDG dirs. Settings are in ~/.config/puddletag and ~/.local/share/puddletag
	

11 March 2014 - 1.0.3
   Fixed: 
   	  Placeholder causing puddletag to not start up for Qt < 4.7.
    	  New version of configobj library not saving unicode objects.
    	  __num_images count for mp3 and ogg.

7 November 2013 - 1.0.2
  Fixed:
	Escaped chars in functions weren't being escaped correctly. Check your functions if they make use of this odd behaviour.
  Added:
	Opus support.
	Artwork windows list JPG + PNG's at the same time.

14 July 2013 - 1.0.2 RC1
   Added:
	Dropdown in Extended Tags that works like Tag Panel. Useful for editing multiple valued fields.
	You can now submit your tags containing MusicBrainz IDs to AcoustID. I suggest you do this.
	Russian and Czech translations. Compiled translations are also included in default install.
	__total can be edited in Tag Panel and other places.
   Fixed:
	MP4 tagging not working at all. I cannot believe no one picked this up.
	Discogs didn't return all album info.

31 August 2012
    Fixes:
        Issue 189.
        puddletag.desktop file installation error with deb package.
        Python2.6 incompatibility.
    Changed:
    AcoustID tag source is not loaded if fpcalc binary not found.
    

21 August 2012
    Fixes:
        Cutting tags wasn't working.
        If multiple files were selected in file-view and edited.
           When changing focus, the new cell would be opened and would remain
           with the value as before after the change.
    Changed:
        Updated icon
        Updated .desktop file as per issue 186.
    Added:
        Russian translation by Viktor Yu. Kovalskiy
        German translation by Ralf Sarholz
    
9 June 2012
    Fixes:
        Loading a new directory would sometimes not unload previously loaded
        directory.
        Mp3tag tag source are more compatible.
        AcoustID support without extra depencies except one.
    Changes:
        Filesystem panel will not update if hidden.
        

18 April 2012
    Fixes:
        Fixed issues with deb not un/installing.
        Fixed issue with dropping album art on Artwork window. Invalid files would still affect the files that have been loaded.
        Fixed error in parser where it wouldn't detect syntax errors correctly.
    Changed:
        Added translations to source tarball.


11 April 2012 - 1.0.0beta5
    Fixes:
        MusicBrainz works.
        Discogs works better with regards to VA albums.
        Amazon works again.

    New Features
        __md5_sig field for FLAC.
        regex scripting function.
        Dutch Translation by Fabian Bakkum.
        Added AcoustID support, but not for general use yet due to the heavy dependency load. Do not try to make it work unless you're an 'advanced' user.

        
18 January 2012 - 1.0.0beta1
    Masstagging improvements with regards to both matching (courtesy of beets)
    and searching.
    $ceiling, $eql, $floor, $round scripting functions.
    Full support for Mp3tag tag sources.
    Support for MusicBrainz and Discogs new APIs.
    More than one file can be written to at a time in the file-view. Just
    select more than one file, write to a field and Bob's your aunt.
    

6 June 2011 - 0.10.6
    Fix for freezes if Update empty fields and 'Retrieve exact matches.' checked
    in Tag Sources dialog.
4 June 2011 - 0.10.5
    Fixed broken tag sources in release.

3 June 2011 - 0.10.4
    News:
        French translation contributed by Raphael Como.
        Man page added.
        New logo created.
        Added data files to source tarball.
        Added documentation to source tarball.
        Added changelog.

    New Features:
        Much improved masstagging.
        Save artwork to file Function.
        Filter that behaves like Mp3tag's.
        In Discogs tag source:
            Added the ability to retrieve track artists
            for Various Artist albums.

            This required that the involvedpeople field be renamed
            to involvedpeople_album as a list of involved people were
            returned for each track too.

            These people are added to the involvedpeople_track field.

        Tag to filename and Tag->Dir functions handle patterns like
        '../%artist%' and './%artist%/%album%' correctly.

        Options for setting the pattern used in saving covers to file dialogs.

    Fixes:
        Multiple value handling for ID3v2.3
        When editing actions, if a field not in the current list of fields was
        used, then the list of saved fields would contain only that field.

        Undoing renaming of dirs.
        Patterns that use scripting functions like $validate(arg1,,arg3)
        will work correctly in that the second argument will evaluate
        to an empty string instead of being discarded.

        Issue 132: Images weren't being added to list of fields to undo.
        For Discogs Tag Source: Images were being retrieved even
        if disabled when using textual searches.

        Changing file in Extended Tags changes the selection in File-View,
        thereby ensuring changes are written to the correct file.

    Changes:
        Unicode support for Replace with Regular Expression function.
        peformersortorder has been renamed to performersortorder in ID3 tags.
        Renaming dirs hooks into Tag->Dir function now.
        The lyrics_us field is now unsyncedlyrics.
        Functions dialog restores last used function upon first load.
        A couple related to the QuodLibet library handling.
        Proper error messages differentiating whether the error occurred
        while writing to files or renaming dirs, files.

        The semi-colon character(';') has been removed from the
        list of invalid filename chars.


23 March 2011 - 0.10.3
    Fixes:
        Deleting tags containing mapped fields.
        Functions operating on multiple values like Merge Field were broken.
        peformersortorder is spelt correctly as performersortorder for ID3 tags.
        Renaming directories when intermediate directories are to be created.

20 March 2011 - 0.10.2
    Contains a fix for bug discovered in 0.10.1 where the default dir for saving artwork defaults to home directory.
    
20 March 2011 - 0.10.1
    New Features:
        Loading subfolders can be turned on/off using the Filesystem Window.
        USLT Frame support for ID3.
        A bunch of new fields.
        Stored Tags window shows the values of all tags found in file.
        Experimental ID3 support. Don't use unless you really need to.
    Fixes:
        Retrieving PUIDS using the MusicBrainz tag source.
        Adding album art from Tag Source was defective.
        The Tag Panel not updating with 'previewed' values.
        Properties window not showing.
    Changes:
        Values in the Stored Tags window aren't emboldened anymore due to
        performance reasons.

8 March 2011 - 0.10.0
    puddletag is now licensed under the GPLv3
    
    New Features:
        Album art for all formats (except ASF)
        Loading master releases in the Discogs.com tag source.
    Changes:
        For ID3 tags, UFID frames are now only loaded if the data can be decoded to UTF8.
        MusicBrainz artist search retrieves 100 albums by default.
        The initial reading of a directory can be canceled now.
    Fixes:
        Uncaught errors for Tag Sources shouldn't 'freeze' the Tag Sources window anymore.
        Discogs artist/albums are parsed correctly instead of being mostly junk.
        Amazon keyword search wasn't working at all.
        Having periods in the Tag->Dir function were causing problems.

9 February 2011 - 0.9.12
    puddletag is now fully translatable.
    
    Changes:
        Users stuck using python-musicbrainz2 < 0.7.0 shouldn't have problems with puddletag crashing on startup.
        Nor is python-musicbrainz2 a hard dependency any more.
        The default user agent now set to puddletag/0.9.12. New users will be able to use the Discogs Tag Source 'out of the box'.
    Fixes include, but are not limited to:
        Editing __dirname and __dirpath while using QuodLibet library is now possible + tons of Music Library related bugs.
        Editing Actions sometimes didn't work.
        The Load Artwork function didn't work as advertised.
        %__total_files% and %__counter% not working when used within scripting functions.
        The Artwork Window is floating by default. Fixes an issue whereby the puddletag window would be larger than the screen.

20 December 2010 - 0.9.11
    Another bug where the Tag Sources dialog would freeze when retrieving albums is fixed.

18 December 2010 - 0.9.9
    A bug was discovered in Discogs that'd make it fail on the vast majority of albums (just not the ones I tested with). This release is to fix that. But I've included the following to:

    New Features:
        Discogs uses the Discogs ID field (which you can define) if it's found in your files.
        You can use your own Amazon and Discogs API keys.
        __counter and __total_files which you can use in Functions and Actions.
    Fixes:
        Case Sensitivity for field names is handled better.

16 December 2010 - 0.9.8
    New Features:
        Translations
        A new Function to correct incorrectly encoded files contributed by Stjujsckij Nickolaj.
        MoveUp and MoveDown shortcuts that move the selected files Up/Down in file-view.
        The folowing fields were added to the MusicBrainz tag source:
            mbrainz_rating, label, country, isrcs, musicip_puid, asin, barcode
        Select all in Dir has been removed. I've added two new menu items. Select Next in Dir and Select Previous Dir.
        Support for GUI plugins.
        A Discogs Tag Source that uses Discogs.com's XML service. I'm not sure how complete this tag source is since Discogs.com's documentation is woefully impcomplete. Set a user-agent in order to use it.
        Tag->Dir
        Using Default theme icons.
        
    Changes:
        The Replace with Regular Expression function now starts from $1 instead of $0. I had to do this in order for Mp3tag's Tag Sources to work. Please update your actions.
        Previews in the Functions now show previews.
        Action Shortcuts settings have been moved from Preferences to the Actions dialog.
        Tools->Sort Selected is now Tools->Sort By. The last sort option is now saved inbetween sessions/loads.
    Fixes:
        MP4 mappings and handling of unicode fields in MP4 files.
        ID3's rating didn't handle missing parameters well.
        Crashes due to renaming many directories at once.
        Undo errors while in Preview Mode.
        Quick Actions weren't working at all.
        Bug in Amazon Tag Source while retrieving small images.
        Loading playlist's with any contained file's having commas.
        Tag Panel not saving if genre isn't present.
        
30 October 2010 - 0.9.7
    New Features:
        The Autonumbering wizard is now a Function.
        Fields are now case-insensitive. Which means that if a file contains a field named 'album', writing to 'ALBUM' will rename 'album' to 'ALBUM'.
        You can add your actions as shortcuts to the Actions menu. See the tooltip for Create Shortcut in Actions dialog for details.
    Bugs:
        Just a couple were fixed, but nothing noteworthy.
    Changes:
        Filenames are now written using the filesystem's encoding instead of UTF-8 (though you should be using UTF-8 anyway ;).
        A new logo cause the old one was getting a bit long in the tooth.
        Functions now save their state.

13 October 2010 - 0.9.6
    Major bug fixed where the fields weren't being shown in the Functions dialog.

9 October 2010 - 0.9.5
    New Features:
        Actions and Functions now operate and write multiple-valued fields.
        A bunch of new Functions, see the [Functions](functions.html) page for a listing.
        Two new scripting functions copied straight from Mp3tag, $meta_sep and $meta.
        A new icon. This one designed by Yianni Pappas-Acreman.
        A new Tag Tools menu, with which you can remove ID3 and APEv2 tags from files where they don't belong.
        Configurable confirmations. Like when you want to Rename Directories, etc.
        A __dirname field. Modify this field to rename the directory.
        UFID frames for ID3v2 Tags.
        Monkey's Audio File's are now supported.
        The Actions and Functions dialogs can now be tool windows too (See Windows Menu).
        All documentation has been updated.

    Fixes:
        If it was broken before, it probably works now.
        The one major fix is that you can load files with messed up encodings now, instead of having puddletag choke on them.

    Changes:
        Files that have previews now have a green background while in Preview Mode (Configurable in Edit->Preferences).
        The configuration for the MusicBrainz Tag Source has been removed. Instead I've opted to return MusicBrainz fields (Album ID, Artist ID, Track ID) by default in mbrainz_track_id, mbrainz_album_id and mbrainz_artist_id. I've also set up default mappings, so that these fields are written to the correct field for each format. Remove ~/.puddletag/mappings to get these.


25 August 2010 - 0.9.4
  New Features:
    Profiles were added to MassTagging, which means now you can do a configuration once and use that forever.
    Renaming files is now possible within Preview Mode.
    A new Function called 'Remove Fields' that does exactly that.
    A new scripting function (contributed by Erik Reckase) that'll convert unicode strings to ASCII.
    The plugin interface for tag sources is now public. See the docs [here](extending.html).
    Right click on any directory. Click the refresh button to refresh it.
    You can now change the shortcut for any menu item. Edit->Preferences->Shortcuts to configure.
    Also, you can now sort selected tracks using predefined fields. Some defaults are in Tools->Sort Selected. Configure using the 'Edit sort options' button in Preferences.
    I've finally added a <a href="rss.xml" target="_parent">RSS Feed</a> to the website.

  Bugs:
    Some bugs related to Preview Mode not working correctly.
    A bunch of others that aren't really worth mentioning.

  Changes:
    I've changed the way Tag Sources store their settings, so you'll need to reconfigure them.

11 August 2010 (0.9.3)
  New Features:
      WavPack, MusePack, and basic WMA support (only common fields, not including artwork are supported.)
      Masstagging, which'll allow you to tag files from multiple tag sources automatically.
      Preview Mode, wherein you can do all your editing and write to files only once.
      A 'Load Artwork' Function with which you can load artwork from the file's directory.
      The plugin interface is now public for functions. Tag sources will be available in the next release.
      Converting filenames to tags can now take the directory name into account.
  Bugs:
      Some Tag Panel Bugs, including entries being replaced if an autocompletion was found of differing case. Genres always being Acapella and when adding entries like Blues\\Rock not being separated properly. And puddletag crashing on loading non-ASCII genres.
      Copy/Paste not working correctly sometimes.
      (Sorry that this one slipped by.) Saving artwork using Extended tags would clear the artwork instead if the cover differed between files.
      Duplicate entries in comboboxes for the Functions dialog are now removed.

4 July 2010 (0.9.2)
  New features:      
    FreeDB and Amazon tag sources were added.
    And puddletag can now use the MusicBrainz ArtistID if it's in a file's tag instead of searching for one. Still need to enable it for releases.
    Tag mappings for tag sources, see the tooltip in Preferences/Mappings for more info.
    And the ability to load only files based on their extension (Preferences/Tags to configure.)
    A new applicication icon created by Evan himself.
      

11 June 2010 (0.90)
  puddletag now has only two known bugs (and many unknown). That is all. There's some UI changes some new features too for those interested.
  
11 May 2010 (0.8.8)
   Fixed some regressions with writing artwork and allowed saving of pictures in jpeg too.

1 May 2010 (0.8.7)
   New Features:
       Amazon tag sources plus a bunch of small stuff.
   Fixes:
       Very many.

14 April 2010
    New Features
        Multiple tag sources support. Musicbrainz only for now, will add more over the coming week.
        Tag mappings. Map a tag to whatever you want to.
        Some tags were changed. See the puddletag.sourceforge.net/tags.html
        More ID3 tags are supported.
        Unicode in MP4 tags is supported.
        Library code has been rewritten. Currently only QuodLibet is supported. Will add more week after next.
        Some of the scripting functions with odd names (if_, not_, etc.) have been renamed to what they're supposed to be.
        All icons not created by me are from the Oxygen icon set for KDE. As soon as I found out how to detect if GNOME is running, I'll add some Ubuntu icons.
    Fixes:
        Far too many to list.


5 November 2009
    New Features:
        The only new feature for this release is that the musicbrainz dialog now allows you to select individual tracks. I like it better now.
    Fixes:
        Some bugs with loading directories were fixed.

11 October 2009
    New Features:
        A Stored Tags dialog that shows the current tags of the selected file as stored on disk. Useful for when editing libraries and the tag differs from the tag on disk.
        I added an option to allow retrieval of duplicates via a specific tag. This can speed things up for some searches.
        And finally, a setup script.
    Fixes:
        There were a lot but the major ones are:
        Duplicates can retrieve more than 300 at a time. (My fault for not checking.)
        Musicbrainz now works for all cases (it gave an error when retrieving via 'album').
        There ain't no more barfing of errors while editing text in the pattern combo.
        Reloading works again (didn't even know it was broken).
    Changes:
	    Instead of changing the background colour of a row, the Musicbrainz dialog now just bold the text that's to be written.

9 September 2009 (0.7.8)
    New Features:
        A duplicates finder, which is super useful. It's not as well tested as I'd like so I'll make that a priority for the next release.
        Rudimentary file-editing support had been added to the filesystem view.
        Bugs were fixed where needed (I seriously need to remember to log this stuff)
        Note that I haven't added any progress bars for these features (due in a week) so just have patience when using them (and keep an eye on the command line for errors).
    Changes:
        I've changed the config system to use ConfigObj as PyQt4's too buggy and Python's built in library too sucky.

    The website looks a lot better.

4 June 2009 (0.7.0)
    New Features:
        Loading times are improved by a couple of miliseconds.
        Showing duplicates can now be slightly fuzzy by adding : in front of the tag that's to be used.
        Added an :artist fuzzy compare listing to the libary view.
    Fixes:
        Sorting or doing anything else while some rows are higlighted is fixed.
        Other little stuff that I can't remember.
    Changes:
        The user interface has been modified just a tad, to be me 'aligned.'

1 May 2009 (0.6.5)
    New Features:
        Cut, copy,  paste.
        All Functions now have a saved history.
        The current selection is now preserved when sorting.
        Saving and loading is a lot faster. On par with Mp3tag.

    Changes:
        Because, of the cut, copy, paste actions being added. All window menus, were move to a new Windows Menu.
        A progress indicator is shown when loading a music library.
        An error message is shown (on the console) if a file failed to load.
        puddletag settings are now stored in ~/.puddletag

    Fixes:
        Saving or changing the image type now works in both the tag editor and Extended tags dialog.
        Also, the image controls being enabled or disabled depending on the file now works properly.
        Clicking Cancel while loading or saving works instantly.

11 April 2009 (0.6.0)
    Bugs wrt to tagging were fixed, like:
        Saving pictures on an mp3 file with the same description.
        No more 'copy method' doesn't exist errors.
        Flickering of the >> and << buttons belowe images were removed.
        Buttons on the image editor are enabled or disabled depending on file.

10 April 2009 (0.5.9)
    Mp4 support was added (Mutagen > 1.9 is needed and Mutagen <= 1.9 isn't supported anymore.)
    Bugs wrt FLAC are sorted.
    And a console version was added. At the moment it's pretty basic, but as time goes on, it'll become better.

23 March 2009 (0.5.4)
    More bugfixes, especially related with the library treeview.
    The In Library and Show Dupes action now change the colors of the rows that match instead of hiding those that don't.
    The Rename Dir action now works with library files. Keep in mind though that it only works for files loaded in the file-view and any other files that happen to reside in the same directory will not be updated.

10 March 2009 (0.5.3)
    A couple of bugfixes.
        Actions sometimes behaved unexpectedly in that they didn't take the currently edited values into account.
        The show dupes button now works.
        A search was added button to the library window, so that slow searches(like prokyon) don't suck as much.
        A bug where strings such as '%artist% - %title%.lower(%__ext%) didn't work as expected, because the last part wasn't matched properly.

8 March 2009
    Nope, still don't got no console version(next release, definitely).

    Anyway, some changes from the last release include:
        The abilitiy to search the music libraries(Albeit slowly).
        A totally revamped parsing system(though it'll look the same from the users point of view).
        Like Mp3tag, Actions are now stored separately instead of in one big file.
	Two extra toolbar buttons, "In library" and 'Show Dupes".
	If a library is loaded then "In library?" hides all the files that are not in the library.
	"Show Dupes" hides all the files in the file-view that doesn't have a duplicate(in the file-view).

    For the next release I'll concentrate on supporting the rest of Mutagen's supported formats, fixing bugs and smoothing the user interface(progress when loading a library, faster search, etc.).

    Expect some interim updates over the next couple of days and a complete release in about a month(1 April 2009).

5 February 2009
    This is basically a bugfix release.

    The were far too many to list here, but some of the major ones were unicode related like:
        Unicode support in prokyon, amarok and rhythmbox libraries was fixed.
        UTF-8 is used for everything.
        puddletag's unicode issues were sorted(e.g. If the last folder you visited
        contained non-ascii characters, puddletag would give you a big F-U.
        Changing a picture using the extended tags dialog now works.

    Some other interesting stuff include:
        The user interface has changed. This includes the look of the icons have improved (they're still shitty, but still)
        If you wanna, you can use the __image tag to show the currently selected file's cover in the Tag Editor (Go to Preferences -> Tag Editor to add it)

    Hmmm, most of the other changes have to do with code quality and refactoring, which I doubt you'll wanna hear.

    The only thing I have for the next release is more powerful scripting and (maybe not, but probably) a console version.

20 January 2009
    Added Music library support for Amarok, Prokyon and Rhythmbox.
    Currently, it's kinda sucky, but I'll spend some time on it and fix
    it as best I can.

    The extended tags dialog now support editing and saving images.
    It also acts a bit more like Mp3tag's with options to move to the
    next and previous file in the file-view.

    The tag editor and filesystem editors have been converted to tool windows
    to allow more interface customization.

    Multiple tags are now available. I've followed Mp3tag's style of allowing
    the user to create multiple tags by using '\\' in the tag editor and
    removing multiple tags if the tag was edited in the file view.

    Nasty bug that deleted any tags not recognized by puddletag was removed.

    Any bugs to do with the extended tags dialog has been fixed(I hope)

    I modified much of the loading and saving code to be independent of
    PyQt so that users using PyQt 4.4.3 don't get those save and loading errors
    anymore.

    ...Can't remember what else I did, cause I forgot to update the log.

3 December 2008
    Interface stuff:
        The musicbrainz dialog doesn't freeze anymore.
        Added a splash screen for the long loading times at the beginning.
        Genres are now available too

2 December 2008
    Just two things
    Added shortcuts -> Just press Ctrl+W to switch between the file-view, pattern combo and tag combos.
    Fixed niggling things like some controls not having accelerators.
