What it is
puddletag is a audio tag editor for Linux somewhat like the Windows program Mp3tag. Unlike most Linux taggers, it uses a spreadsheet-like layout so that all the tags you want to edit by hand are visible and easily editable.
    
The usual tag editor features are supported like extracting tag information from filenames, renaming files based on their tags by using patterns (that you define, not crappy, uneditable ones).

Then there're functions, which can do things like replace text, trim, change the case of tag values, etc. Actions can automate repetitive tasks. You can import your QuodLibet library, lookup tags using MusicBrainz, FreeDB or Amazon (though it's only good for cover art) and more, but I've reached my comma quota.

Supported formats: id3v1, id3v2 (mp3), AAC (mp4, m4a, etc.), VorbisComments (ogg, flac) and APEv2 (ape).

Why it is
Everything else sucked for various reasons and Mp3tag was the only reason I kept an XP partition around.

How it's different
Besides being buggier than Mp3tag (to be addressed), puddletag does a lot of things differently. If you've used Mp3tag before, you'll notice the difference immediately. However, for those that haven't, don't worry about it.

What you need 
At least Python 2.5.
PyQt4 (4.5 or greater) for the GUI.
PyParsing (>1.4) takes care of the parsing...
Mutagen (> 1.17 recommended, 1.14 required), tags and...
ConfigObj takes care of saving settings.
python-musicbrainz2 for MusicBrainz support.

The following are recommended. 
The Python Imaging Library in order to edit/view FLAC cover art.
QuodLibet must be installed in order to edit a QuodLibet library.

For Debian-based distros, use the following to install the dependencies. sudo aptitude install python-qt4 python-pyparsing python-mutagen python-configobj python-musicbrainz2 python-imaging

How to get it
Download it from SourceForge (at http://puddletag.sourceforge.net).

Install it by running "python setup.py install" as root in the unzipped directory. The puddletag menu item can then be found under the Multimedia Menu.

For those with strong constitutions, you can also check it out using svn (keep in mind that it's broken 80% of the time.)

        svn co https://puddletag.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/puddletag puddletag

License
puddletag is free as in free by being licencsed under GPLv2, which you can find at www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html.

Updates
Swing by the website (http://puddletag.sourceforge.net) monthly for updates. 

Support
Visit the puddletag website (http://puddletag.sourceforge.net) for links to the forum and bug tracker.